README.md, before:

# Harmony

Harmony is a programming language designed for testing and experimenting with concurrent code.

- [Harmony](#harmony)
  - [Installing Python3](#installing-python3)
  - [Install Harmony via Pip](#install-harmony-via-pip)
  - [For Windows Users](#for-windows-users)
  - [Adding Scripts to PATH](#adding-scripts-to-path)
  - [Command-Line Harmony](#command-line-harmony)
  - [Harmony on VSCode](#harmony-on-vscode)
  - [Updating Harmony](#updating-harmony)
  - [Modifying your PATH variable](#modifying-your-path-variable)

For more information, please visit the official page https://harmony.cs.cornell.edu.

Harmony requires the following to be installed:

1. Python (version 3.6 or higher)
2. C compiler (potentially optional)

Note that in the following instructions, Windows users using WSL should follows instructions for Linux.

## Installing Python3

If you do not have Python3 already installed, download and install Python depending on
your OS (Windows, Mac, Linux, etc) on the official [Python site](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
Be sure to install Python version `3.6` or higher.

On the command line, you can check if Python has been successfully installed by running the following:

```sh
python --version
```

## Install Harmony via Pip

After installing `python`, you should also be able to use the command `pip`. Run the following command to get the latest version of Harmony:

```sh
pip install harmony-model-checker
```

## For Windows Users

For **Windows** users: you may encounter the error message along the lines of the following when installing `harmony-model-checker`:

```sh
error: Microsoft Visual C++ 14.0 or greater is required. Get it with
"Microsoft C++ Build Tools": <link to visual studio - cpp build tools>
```

This is to be expected if you had not installed the "Microsoft C++ Build Tools" before. Navigate to the outputted link and press `Download Build Tools` to download the installer. When you run the installer, you will encounter a selection screen such as the following:

![Workload installation selection screen](doc-images/find-c++-build-tools.png "Worload installation selection screen")

Select `Desktop development with C++` in the `Desktop & Mobile` section and then install.

![Select the workload and install](doc-images/press-install-c++-build-tools.png "Select the workload and install")

Note that this will likely take a while. When it finishes installing, run `pip install harmony-model-checker` again.

## Adding Scripts to PATH

When installing Harmony, you may encounter a warning on the command line of something like the following:

```sh
WARNING: The script harmony is installed in '</path/with/harmony/>' which is not on PATH.
  Consider adding this directory to PATH or, if you prefer to suppress this warning, use --no-warn-script-location.
```

If you do not see this warning, then you can continue.

Otherwise, add that path displayed in the message to your `PATH` variable. See [here](#modifying-your-path-variable) for extra information on editing the `PATH` variable.

## Command-Line Harmony

Once you have installed `harmony-model-checker`, you should be able to use the `harmony` command on your command line.

## Harmony on VSCode

Harmony is available as an extension on VSCode, which includes syntax highlighting and basic parser checks.

Please see [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kevinsun-dev-cornell.harmonylang) for a guide on the basic usage of the VSCode extension.

## Updating Harmony

Harmony can be updated by running the following `pip` command on the command line:

```sh
pip install --upgrade harmony-model-checker
```

## Modifying your PATH variable

**Windows**:

Search for **Edit environment variables** in the search bar. You can add it either to the `Path` associated with your account or the system `Path`.

![A pane with sections](doc-images/first-pane.png "First pane")

Select the variable `Path` in the user variables section and then click "Edit", which opens a new pane.

![Hover over the new button](doc-images/hover-new.png "Hovering over the new button")

Click "New" to add a new path, for example, the path to `gcc`.

![Add new path](doc-images/adding-new-path.png "Adding new path")


**MacOS / Linux**:

Open the Terminal application. Check which shell is running on the Terminal. You check which one you have by running `echo "$SHELL"`.

The following instructions are for `bash` and `zsh`, where `/path/to/add` is to be substituted:

```sh
# for bash
echo "export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/add" >> ~/.bash_profile

# for zsh
echo "export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/add" >> ~/.zsh_profile
```

Commit message:

update readme on python installation

README.md, after:

# Harmony

Harmony is a programming language designed for testing and experimenting with concurrent code.

- [Harmony](#harmony)
  - [Installing Python3](#installing-python3)
  - [Install Harmony via Pip](#install-harmony-via-pip)
  - [For Windows Users](#for-windows-users)
  - [Adding Scripts to PATH](#adding-scripts-to-path)
  - [Command-Line Harmony](#command-line-harmony)
  - [Harmony on VSCode](#harmony-on-vscode)
  - [Updating Harmony](#updating-harmony)
  - [Modifying your PATH variable](#modifying-your-path-variable)

For more information, please visit the official page https://harmony.cs.cornell.edu.

In the following instructions, Windows users using WSL should follows instructions for Linux.

## Installing Python3

Harmony requires Python (version 3.6 or higher) to be installed. If you do not have Python3 already installed, download and install Python depending on your OS (Windows, Mac, Linux, etc) on the official [Python site](https://www.python.org/downloads/). Be sure to download the installer for Python version `3.6` or higher.

In the installer, the default installation settings will also add `pip`. If you choose to run the installer with custom settings, be sure that `pip` gets installed.

On the command line, you can check if Python has been successfully installed by running the following:

```sh
python --version
```

## Install Harmony via Pip

After installing `python`, you should also be able to use the command `pip`. Run the following command to get the latest version of Harmony:

```sh
pip install harmony-model-checker
```

## For Windows Users

For **Windows** users: you may encounter the error message along the lines of the following when installing `harmony-model-checker`:

```sh
error: Microsoft Visual C++ 14.0 or greater is required. Get it with
"Microsoft C++ Build Tools": <link to visual studio - cpp build tools>
```

This is to be expected if you had not installed the "Microsoft C++ Build Tools" before. Navigate to the outputted link and press `Download Build Tools` to download the installer. When you run the installer, you will encounter a selection screen such as the following:

![Workload installation selection screen](doc-images/find-c++-build-tools.png "Worload installation selection screen")

Select `Desktop development with C++` in the `Desktop & Mobile` section and then install.

![Select the workload and install](doc-images/press-install-c++-build-tools.png "Select the workload and install")

Note that this will likely take a while. When it finishes installing, run `pip install harmony-model-checker` again.

## Adding Scripts to PATH

When installing Harmony, you may encounter a warning on the command line of something like the following:

```sh
WARNING: The script harmony is installed in '</path/with/harmony/>' which is not on PATH.
  Consider adding this directory to PATH or, if you prefer to suppress this warning, use --no-warn-script-location.
```

If you do not see this warning, then you can continue.

Otherwise, add that path displayed in the message to your `PATH` variable. See [here](#modifying-your-path-variable) for extra information on editing the `PATH` variable.

## Command-Line Harmony

Once you have installed `harmony-model-checker`, you should be able to use the `harmony` command on your command line.

## Harmony on VSCode

Harmony is available as an extension on VSCode, which includes syntax highlighting and basic parser checks.

Please see [here](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=kevinsun-dev-cornell.harmonylang) for a guide on the basic usage of the VSCode extension.

## Updating Harmony

Harmony can be updated by running the following `pip` command on the command line:

```sh
pip install --upgrade harmony-model-checker
```

## Modifying your PATH variable

**Windows**:

Search for **Edit environment variables** in the search bar. You can add it either to the `Path` associated with your account or the system `Path`.

![A pane with sections](doc-images/first-pane.png "First pane")

Select the variable `Path` in the user variables section and then click "Edit", which opens a new pane.

![Hover over the new button](doc-images/hover-new.png "Hovering over the new button")

Click "New" to add a new path, for example, the path to `gcc`.

![Add new path](doc-images/adding-new-path.png "Adding new path")


**MacOS / Linux**:

Open the Terminal application. Check which shell is running on the Terminal. You check which one you have by running `echo "$SHELL"`.

The following instructions are for `bash` and `zsh`, where `/path/to/add` is to be substituted:

```sh
# for bash
echo "export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/add" >> ~/.bash_profile

# for zsh
echo "export PATH=$PATH:/path/to/add" >> ~/.zsh_profile
```
